
Human Resources Department
Bloomberg LP
New York City, NY

Dear HR Manager,

I would like to apply for the position of Software Engineer at Bloomberg LP that was posted on Jan 11, 2017. 
With my strong academic qualifications and ample experience in software development industry, I believe I am eligible for the job and 
present my candidacy for the position.

I am a student in MS in Computer Science in The University of Tennessee, Knoxville who is graduating this May, 2017 
and looking for professional practice in software engineering. As per requirement of Master's degree, I am working on thesis 'Efficient Simulation Of A Simple Evolutionary System' 
focusing on efficient computations of genetic algorithm using diploid population model and its applications in research of finite population evolution behavior. 

After ungraduate studies, I worked as software engineer at Deerwalk Services Pvt. Ltd (based on US company Deerwalk Inc.) in Nepal 
for two years and seven months. During the period, I had opportunities to work in several projects on development of US based health care system 
applications with different languages and framworks. I worked in services team that service outsourced projects in .Net frameworks for a year and 4 months 
where I gained sound experience in software development using C#, Asp.Net MVC, MSSQL database and implementing unit tests using NUnit. 
I worked with products team that develop company's own products in Grails framework (on top of java) for a year and 3 months. 
Within the stint, I fixed bugs in the existing codes and refactored old codes, developed new modules implementing unit tests in JUnit and Spock. 
I trained other members, fellow and trainees, in team to implement unit tests. Together with business analysts, 
I developed optimized generic script in MYSQL to import staged data from 
multiple clients to the products' database system. 
Overall, my responsibilities as software engineer at Deerwalk included 
planning and estimation of project development, fix issues in existing systems, development of new modules, 
finding optimal solutions to problems, code reviews and training junior developers.

During my graduate studies at The University of Tennessee, I have worked as a graduate teaching assistant for classes 'Algorithm Analysis and Automata' 
and 'Software Engineering'. I have also been working as graduate research assistant for Dr. Sergey Gavrilets from Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Department 
where I write codes for efficient simulation of his mathematical models and plotting graphs in C using 'gnuplot'. Apart from that, I have worked multiple projects in 
as graduate course requirements in C++, Java, Hadoop, pthreads, CUDA and openMP. 

With my strong and dynamic programming background, enthusiastic nature to learn new things, and logical mind, I believe I can be a integral part of your 
reputed organization, and hereby, submit my application for the position of Software Engineer. 

Thank you for your kind consideration. Looking forward to hearing positive response from you soon. 

Yours Sincerely,
Mahendra Duwal Shrestha
Contact No: (865)-441-7363
Email: duwal.mahendra@gmail.com or mduwalsh@vols.utk.edu