Everi 
Grand Rapids, MI, US 

Dear HR Manager,

I would like to apply for the position of .NET Application Developer at Everi that has fallen vacant. With my strong academic qualifications and experience in software development industry, I believe I am the most suitable candidate for the job and present my candidacy for the position.

I have successfully completed MS degree in Computer Science in The University of Tennessee, Knoxville with thesis on 'Efficient Simulation Of A Simple Evolutionary System' where we provide efficient methods of computing genetic algorithm using diploid population model, and its applications in research of population evolution behavior in genetic algorithm. 

I worked as software engineer at Deerwalk Services Pvt. Ltd (based on US company Deerwalk Inc.) in Nepal for two years and seven months. During the period, I worked in several health care related web application development projects in .Net frameworks using C#, Asp.Net MVC implementing objected oriented programming following agile development methodology. The design architecture followed in application developments was logical multilayered architecture. In most .Net projects, EntityFramework was used to interact with database. Besides, I have good experience in designing and developing databases and stored procedures in MSSQL. I also had the opportunities to incorporate unit tests with development in both .Net framework (using NUnit and mocks) and Grails framework (using JUnit, mocks and Spock). I fixed bugs in the existing codes, and refactored and optimized old codes, developed new modules. I trained other members, fellow and trainees, in team to implement unit tests. Together with business analysts, I developed optimized generic script in MYSQL to import staged data from multiple clients to the products' database system. Overall, my responsibilities as software engineer at Deerwalk included planning and estimation of project development, fixing issues in existing systems, development of new modules, finding optimal solutions to problems, code reviews and training junior developers. With two years and seven months in web application development, I am well adept in client side scripting like javascript, jquery and Ajax.

During my graduate studies at The University of Tennessee, I have worked as a graduate teaching assistant for classes 'Algorithm Analysis and Automata' 
and 'Software Engineering'. I have also been working as graduate research assistant for Dr. Sergey Gavrilets from Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Department 
where I develop programs for efficient simulation of his computational models and plotting graphs in C/C++ using 'gnuplot'.  

With my strong and dynamic programming background, enthusiastic nature, and logical mind, I believe I can be a integral part of your reputed organization, and hereby, submit my application for the position of the .NET Application Developer. 

Thank you for your kind consideration. Looking forward to hearing positive response from you soon. 

Yours Sincerely,
Mahendra Duwal Shrestha
Contact No: (865)-441-7363
Email: duwal.mahendra@gmail.com or mduwalsh@vols.utk.edu 

